This Week in Glean: Shipping Glean with GeckoView (#20)
badboy/fnordig.de: _posts/2021-07-19-shipping-glean-with-geckoview.md

---
permalink: "/{{ year }}/{{ month }}/{{ day }}/shipping-glean-with-geckoview"
title: "This Week in Glean: Shipping Glean with GeckoView"
published_date: "2021-07-19 18:00:00 +0200"
layout: post.liquid
data:
  route: blog
  tags:
    - mozilla
    - rust
---

(“This Week in Glean” is a series of blog posts that the Glean Team at Mozilla is using to try to communicate better about our work. They could be release notes, documentation, hopes, dreams, or whatever: so long as it is inspired by Glean.)
All "This Week in Glean" blog posts are listed in the [TWiG index](https://mozilla.github.io/glean/book/appendix/twig.html)
(and on the [Mozilla Data blog](https://blog.mozilla.org/data/category/glean/)).
This article is [cross-posted on the Mozilla Data blog][datablog].

---

## Glean SDK

The Glean SDK is Mozilla's telemetry library, used in most mobile products and now for Firefox Desktop as well.

> By now it grew to a sizable code base with a lot of functionality beyond just storing some metric data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By now it has grown to a sizable code base with a lot of functionality beyond just storing some metric data.
```

[this year](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j5rczOF7pzg)
and blogged about it [in a previous TWiG][twig-crossplatform].

## GeckoView

[GeckoView][] is Mozilla's alternative implementation for WebViews on Android, based on Gecko, the web engine that also powers Firefox Desktop.
It is used as the engine behind [Firefox for Android][fenix] (also called Fenix).
The visible parts of what makes up Firefox for Android is written in Kotlin, but it all delegates to the underlying Gecko engine,
written in a combination of C++, Rust & JavaScript.

The GeckoView code resides in the mozilla-central repository, next to all the other Gecko code.
From there releases are pushed to Mozilla's own [Maven repository][maven-repo].

## One Glean too many

Initially Firefox for Android was the only user of the Glean SDK.
Up until today it consumes Glean through its release as part of [Android Components][ac], a collection of libraries to build browser-like applications.

But the Glean SDK is also available outside of Android Components, as its own package.
And additionally it's available for other languages and platforms too, including a [Rust crate][crate].

> [Over the past year we've been busy][fog-report] to get Gecko to use Glean through the Rust crate to build its own telemetry on top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Over the past year we've been busy][fog-report] getting Gecko to use Glean through the Rust crate to build its own telemetry on top.
```
